Electric Vehicle Dashboard
Contents
1.	Introduction

2.	Question 1

2.1.	Chart 1
2.2.	Chart 2
2.3.	Chart 3

3.	Question 2

3.1.	Chart 1
3.2.	Chart 2
3.3.	Chart 3

4.	Question 3

4.1.	Chart 1
4.2.	Chart 2
4.3.	Chart 3

5.	Conclusion








1.	Introduction

The purpose of this report is to present the findings of a Market Intelligence Dashboard developed to evaluate demand trends, the evolving global competitive landscape, and the effects of recent oil shocks on the electric vehicle (EV) industry. The report first examines increasing competitive pressure within the EV market, before analysing changes in consumer demand associated with oil shock events. Finally, it evaluates the emergence of Chinese EV manufacturers and their value proposition, with particular consideration of whether their competitive strategy prioritises production volume over product quality.

2.	Rising Competitive Pressures
 
Chart A, Chart B, Chart C (From left to right)

The first section of this dashboard considers rising competitive pressures in the EV industry and is broken down into three questions in order to provide a comprehensive analysis on the industry.
In our first dashboard we will look at:
-	As Tesla has expanded their offerings to serve multiple segments, has its average customer ratings held, or has quality perception diluted as volume and variety scaled significantly over recent years? (2.1)
-	Has Tesla’s share of Total Annual Sales declined Year-over-Year since 2022, if so, at what rate? (2.2)
-	Have competitors closed the gap on metrics that Tesla has previously led and built its global reputation on, such as range, charging speed, and autopilot ability. (2.3)



2.1	Tesla – Market share versus Ratings
Beginning in 2020, Tesla saw its highest Average Customer Ratings while possessing their lowest market share at sub-25%, entering into 2021 – Tesla captured a large portion of the EV industry, likely benefiting from the 2021 Russo-Ukrainian Invasion and Oil shocks.  During this initial surge in market share, customer ratings dropped in a near inversely-proportional manner – spiking upwards slightly in 2022 while Market Share moved upwards modestly.  

In the Post-2022 region, the relationship between Market Share and Ratings has stabilised but still visibly reacts in opposite directions from eachother – potentially implying that Tesla’s competitive gains are achieved through factors other than customer satisfaction or that Tesla’s improvements in product quality and customer perception no longer translates into market share gain. Possibly being a consequence of lower-rated manufacturers entering the EV industry with aggressive pricing strategies and large-volume production, rather than being reliant on customer satisfaction as a means of expansion.

2.2	Teslas YoY Market share
Since 2020, Tesla maintains their position as the largest EV manufacturer by Market Share. However, in recent years such as in 2025 showed a decline in Tesla’s, and other large EV manufacturers as the EV industry sees a surge in small players and existing, established car companies (Kia, Hyundai, etc) beginning to manufacture Electric cars.
This chart shows not an impending consolidation of the EV industry, but an increasing competitive environment with many small competitors and large established manufacturers expanding into the EV industry.

2.3	Competitors Specs
Looking at the Radar Chart (includes 5 largest companies) above, it is apparent that no manufacturer has begun to meet or lead Tesla on specifications such as Charging Speed, Autopilot, and their Customer Ratings.
However, Tesla falls short on Range, and Range_per_dollar when compared to the other four of the five largest companies in the EV industry.  Possibly showing that factors such as range and range value is not a prioritised factor for Tesla when it comes to their vehicles and their vehicle innovation, as much as more “technical” features are, such as Autopilot and Charging Speed.


